---
layout: article
title: Dynamo
tags: Papers
---
Dynamo: Amazon's Highly Available Key-value Store
## 1. Introduction
- Amazon's Requirements: performance, reliability, efficiency & highly scalable.
- ***Combines of different technology***: Consistent hashing, Object versioning, a Decentralized Replica Sync Protocol, a Gossip Based Distributed Failure Detection & Membership Protocol.
## 2. Background
### 2.1 System Assumptions & Requirements
- Why not RDBMS? Most of requests only stores and retrieve data by accessing primary-key, complex queries are not required.
- Dynamo provides ***weak consistency*** in exchange of high availability. 
- Each service use its distinct instance of Dynamo.
- No security related requirements.
### 2.2 Service Level Aggrements
- Include: client's ***expected request rate distribution*** for a particular API, and service ***response time***. 
- For page request: rendering engine must maintain a clear bound for response time, under the constraint of a (maybe deep level) call graph.
- For amazon: SLAs are measured at ***99.9%*** percentile of distribution.
### 2.3 Design Considerations
- Dynamo is constructed to reach ***eventually consistent of data storage***: all updates reach all replicas eventually.
- Concflicting changes which should be resolved, but ***when*** & ***who***?
- ***when***? Dynamo pushes the conflict resolutions to ***read***, preventing poor customer experience - ***always writeable***.
- ***who***? Applications.
## 3. Related Work
- ***P2P network*** looked at the problem of data storage and distribution.
- ***Distributed file systems and databases***.
- No multi-hop routing: variability in response time.
## 4. System Architecture
- Key technology:

|Problem|Technique|
|----|----|
|Partitioning|***Consistent Hashing***|
|High availability for writes|***Vector clocks***, reconiliation during reads|
|Handling temporary failures|***Sloppy Quorum***, hinted handoff|
|Recovering from permanent failures|***Merkle Tree***|
|Membership and failure detection|***Gossip-based*** membership protocol|

### 4.1 System Interface
- ***get(key)***: returns object or list of objects of conflicting versions, and context.
- ***put(key, context, object)***
- Context: metadata and info (version of the object & extra). Provide fundamental for application-based conflict requests resolver. 
### 4.2 Partitioning Algorithm
- Dynamically partition the data over the set of nodes - supporting ***incrementally scaling***.
- ***Consistent Hashing***: same namespace for node and key (under MD5). A ring is constructed: each node only reponsible for an interval. Each key found its coordinator node in a clockwise fashion.
- ***Virtual Node***: each 'physical node' is reponsible for a bunch of virtual nodes. A perfect design for ***Load balancing*** & ***Heterogeneity***: the work distribution must be proportional to the capabilities of individual servers.
### 4.3 Replication
- Each key is assigned to a coordinator node, which replicates these keys at N-1 clockwise predecessor node.
### 4.4 Data Versioning
- Inconsistencies: a ***put()*** may returns before updating to all replicas, then a subsequent ***get()*** may return an object that does not have the latest updates. Thus, Dynamo may contains same objects with different sub-version histories.
- ***Vector clocks***: a list of <node, counter> for every version of every object. If counters on the first object's clock <= all of the nodes on the second object's clock, then the first object can be forgotten. Otherwise, there's a conflict, both will be perserved. A ***get()*** would read all of them, and the client will need to perform reconciliation.
### 4.5 Execution of get() and put() operations
- Two ways to select a node to operate: (1) through a ***load balancer*** (2) a ***partition-aware node library*** that routes directly to nodes.
- ***A quorum-like system***: R represents minumum nodes that must participate in a successfull read. W same for write. In a quorum-like system: ***R+W>N***.
- ***put()***: send to N nodes, at least W-1 nodes respond.
- ***get()***: requests to N nodes, waits for R responses. If coordinator ends up getting multiple version of data, it returns all of them. The client reconcile all of them, and the reconciled version is written back.
### 4.6 Handling Failures: Hinted Handoff
- ***Sloppy Quorum***: send to N ***healthy*** nodes instead of N continuous predecessors.
- A ***Hinted Handoff*** shows up if a node receives unexpected objects. The objects are kept in a separate local database. The node performs a periodically scan, and whenever the node discovers that the original replica node is recovered, it send the objects back to that node.
### 4.7 Handling permanent failures: Replica Synchronization
- ***Merkle Tree***: leaves are hashes of values of individual keys, while parents are hashes of their respective children.
- Need more info...
### 4.8 Membership and Failure Detection
#### 4.8.1 Ring Membership
- A ***gossip-based protocol*** propagates membership changes. Partitioning and placement infos propagates via protocol, and each storage node is aware of key(token) ranges handled by its peers.
#### 4.8.2 External Discovery
- ***Seeds***: discovered via an external mechanism and are known to all nodes. Logical partition (separate rings) unlikely to happen.
#### 4.8.3 Failure Detection
- A purely local notion of failure detection: A may consider B failed if B is not reponsing to A.
### 4.9 Adding/Removing Storage Nodes
- Key transfer + Application round.
## 5. Implementation
- Components: ***request coordination***, ***membership and failure detection***, ***a local persistence engine***.
## 6. Experiences & Lessons Learned
- Main patterns: business logic specific reconciliation, timestamp based reconciliation, high performance read engine.
- Common (N,R,W): (3,2,2)
### 6.1 Balancing Performance and Durability
- SLA: 99.9% of read and write requests execute within 300ms.
- Trade-off durability to guaranteen performance: write-cache for follow-up read requests. A writer thread periodically write to storage. Coordinator randomly pick a node to perform 'durable write' to improve durability.
### 6.2 Ensuring Uniform Load Distribution
- Use independent schemes for partitioning and placement.
- Q/S tokens per node, equal-sized partitions.
### 6.3 Divergent Versions: When and How Many?
- In Dynamo, divergent versions seem to appear rarely!
### 6.4 Client-driven or Server-driven Coordination
- Client-driven coordination: eliminates the overhead of a load-balancer.
### 6.5 Balancing background vs. foreground tasks
- An admission controller is used for background tasks to reserve runtime slices of the resource.
### 6.6 Discussion
- Dynamo exposes data consistency and reconciliation logic issues to the developers.
- Dynamo has a full membership model where each node is aware of the data hosted by its peers.
## 7. Conclusions
- Dynamo shows that, an eventual-consistent storage system can be a building block for highly-available applications.